Add guide for external cert management at ingress gateway using SDS (#3224)
istio/istio.io: content/docs/tasks/traffic-management/secure-ingress/sds/index.md

    {{< /text >}}

    When prompted, select `y` for all the questions. The command will generate
    four directories: `1_root`, `2_intermediate`, `3_application`, and
    `4_client` containing the client and server certificates you use in the
    procedures below.

1.  Move the certificates into a directory named `httpbin.example.com`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ mkdir ~+1/httpbin.example.com && mv 1_root 2_intermediate 3_application 4_client ~+1/httpbin.example.com
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Go back to your previous directory:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ popd
    {{< /text >}}

## Configure a TLS ingress gateway using SDS

In this section you will configure a TLS ingress gateway that fetches credentials
 from the ingress gateway agent via secret discovery service (SDS). The ingress
 gateway agent is running in the same pod as the ingress gateway, and watches
 credentials created in the same namespace as the ingress gateway. Enabling SDS
 at ingress gateway brings the following benefits.

* The ingress gateway is able to dynamically add/delete/update ingress gateway
key/certificate and root certificate. You do not have to restart the ingress
gateway.

> * The secret volume mount is no longer needed. Once you create a `kubernetes`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* No secret volume mount is needed. Once you create a `kubernetes`
```

secret, that secret is captured by the gateway agent and sent to ingress gateway
 as key/certificate or root certificate.

> * The gateway agent is able to watch multiple key/certificate pairs. You only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The gateway agent can watch multiple key/certificate pairs. You only
```

need to create secrets for multiple hosts and update the gateway definitions.

1.  Enable SDS at ingress gateway and deploy the ingress gateway agent.

>     This feature is disabled by default, you need to enable the feature flag

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Since this feature is disabled by default, you need to enable the
```

>     [`istio-ingressgateway.sds.enabled`]({{<github_blob>}}/install/kubernetes/helm/subcharts/gateways/values.yaml) in helm,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    [`istio-ingressgateway.sds.enabled` flag]({{<github_blob>}}/install/kubernetes/helm/subcharts/gateways/values.yaml) in helm,
```

    and then generate the `istio-ingressgateway.yaml` file:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm template install/kubernetes/helm/istio/ --name istio \
    --namespace istio-system -x charts/gateways/templates/deployment.yaml \
    --set gateways.istio-egressgateway.enabled=false \
    --set gateways.istio-ingressgateway.sds.enabled=true > \
    $HOME/istio-ingressgateway.yaml
    $ kubectl apply -f $HOME/istio-ingressgateway.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

> 1.  Set the environment variables `INGRESS_HOST` and `SECURE_INGRESS_PORT`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Set the environment variables `INGRESS_HOST` and `SECURE_INGRESS_PORT`:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export SECURE_INGRESS_PORT=$(kubectl -n istio-system \
    get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[?(@.name=="https")].port}')
    $ export INGRESS_HOST=$(kubectl -n istio-system \
    get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
    {{< /text >}}

### Configure a TLS ingress gateway for a single host

> 1.  Start the `httpbin` sample

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Start the `httpbin` sample:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Service
    metadata:
      name: httpbin
      labels:
        app: httpbin
    spec:
      ports:
      - name: http
        port: 8000
      selector:
        app: httpbin
    ---
    apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
    kind: Deployment
    metadata:
      name: httpbin
    spec:
      replicas: 1
      template:
        metadata:
          labels:
            app: httpbin
            version: v1
        spec:
          containers:
          - image: docker.io/citizenstig/httpbin
            imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
            name: httpbin
            ports:
            - containerPort: 8000
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

> 1.  Create a secret for ingress gateway

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Create a secret for the ingress gateway:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create -n istio-system secret generic httpbin-credential \
    --from-file=key=httpbin.example.com/3_application/private/httpbin.example.com.key.pem \
    --from-file=cert=httpbin.example.com/3_application/certs/httpbin.example.com.cert.pem
    {{< /text >}}

> 1.  Define a Gateway with a server section for port 443, and specify

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Define a gateway with a `servers:` section for port 443, and specify values for
```

> `credentialName` to be `httpbin-credential`, which should be the same as the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`credentialName` to be `httpbin-credential`. The values are the same as the
```

> secret name. TLS mode should be specified as SIMPLE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
secret's name. The TLS mode should have the value of `SIMPLE`.
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: Gateway
    metadata:
      name: mygateway
    spec:
      selector:
        istio: ingressgateway # use istio default ingress gateway
      servers:
      - port:
          number: 443
          name: https
          protocol: HTTPS
        tls:
          mode: SIMPLE
          credentialName: "httpbin-credential" # must be the same as secret
        hosts:
        - "httpbin.example.com"
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

> 1.  Configure routes for traffic entering via the Gateway. Define the same

Reviewer: Please check your use of the word same. I suspect it is improperly used a lot of the times. Consider using corresponding, related, or similar instead. Same implies the things are identical which is almost never the case.
```suggestion
1.  Configure the gateway's ingress traffic routes. Define the corresponding
```

> `VirtualService`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
virtual service.
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: VirtualService
    metadata:
      name: httpbin
    spec:
      hosts:
      - "httpbin.example.com"
      gateways:
      - mygateway
      http:
      - match:
        - uri:
            prefix: /status
        - uri:
            prefix: /delay
        route:
        - destination:
            port:
              number: 8000
            host: httpbin
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

> 1.  Access the `httpbin` service with HTTPS by sending an https request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Send an HTTPS request to access the `httpbin` service through HTTPS:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl -v -HHost:httpbin.example.com \
    --resolve httpbin.example.com:$SECURE_INGRESS_PORT:$INGRESS_HOST \
    --cacert httpbin.example.com/2_intermediate/certs/ca-chain.cert.pem \
    https://httpbin.example.com:$SECURE_INGRESS_PORT/status/418
    {{< /text >}}

    The `httpbin` service will return the
    [418 I'm a Teapot](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7168#section-2.3.3) code.

> 1.  Replace the credentials for the ingress gateway. You can change the

Reviewer: Delete the gateway's secret and create a new one to change the ingress gateway's credentials.

Author: Done.
